Insert and modify data on the columnstore (#4351)
timescale/docs: use-timescale/compression/modify-compressed-data.md

---
title: Inserting or modifying data in the columnstore
excerpt: In TimescaleDB, compressed data can still be modified. Learn to insert data into compressed chunks and modify data in the columnstore.
products: [cloud, mst, self_hosted]
keywords: [compression, backfilling, hypertables, columnstore]
---

# Insert and modify data in the $COLUMNSTORE

In $TIMESCALE_DB [v2.11.0](tsdb-release-2-11-0) and later, you can use the `UPDATE` and `DELETE`
commands to modify existing rows in compressed chunks. This works in a similar
way to `INSERT` operations. To reduce the amount decompression that is done, $TIMESCALE_DB only attempts to decompress data where it is necessary. 

> the modification commands can end up decompressing a large amount of data. 

Reviewer: Can you remove this line please.

---
title: Inserting or modifying data in the columnstore
excerpt: In TimescaleDB, compressed data can still be modified. Learn to insert data into compressed chunks and modify data in the columnstore.
products: [cloud, mst, self_hosted]
keywords: [compression, backfilling, hypertables, columnstore]
---

# Insert and modify data in the $COLUMNSTORE

> In $TIMESCALE_DB [v2.11.0](tsdb-release-2-11-0) and later, you can also use `UPDATE` and `DELETE`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In $TIMESCALE_DB [v2.11.0](tsdb-release-2-11-0) and later, you can use the `UPDATE` and `DELETE`
```

commands to modify existing rows in compressed chunks. This works in a similar

> way to `INSERT` operations. The system attempts to only decompress data that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
way to `INSERT` operations. To reduce the amount decompression that is done, $TIMESCALE_DB only attempts to decompress data where it is necessary. 
```

> is necessary, to reduce the amount decompression that is done, but in some cases

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> the modification commands can end up decompressing a large amount of data. This

Reviewer: However, if there are no qualifiers, or if the qualifiers cannot be used as filters, calls to `UPDATE` and `DELETE`  may convert large amounts of data to the rowstore and back to the columnstore.

often happens if there are no qualifiers, or if the qualifiers can't be used to

> filter. You can try and avoid this by using columns for `segmentby` and

Reviewer: To avoid large scale conversion, filter on the columns you use to `segementby` and `orderby`.  This filters as much data as possible before any data is modified, and reduces the amount of data conversions.

> `orderby`, which allows as much data as possible to be filtered out before the

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

decompression and modification operations.

> DML operations on the $COLUMNSTORE also work if the data you are inserting has 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DML operations on the $COLUMNSTORE work if the data you are inserting has 
```

> unique constraints, and those constraints are preserved during the insert operation. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
unique constraints. Constraints are preserved during the insert operation. 
```

> This is done by using a $PG function that decompresses relevant data during the insert 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$TIMESCALE_DB uses a $PG function that decompresses relevant data during the insert 
```

to check if the new data breaks unique checks. This means that any time you insert data
into the $COLUMNSTORE, a small amount of data is decompressed to allow a
speculative insertion, and block any inserts which could violate constraints.

> For $TIMESCALE_DB [v2.17.0](tsdb-release-2-17-0) and later, there is improved delete performance on compressed 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For $TIMESCALE_DB [v2.17.0](tsdb-release-2-17-0) and later, delete performance is improved on compressed 
```

hypertables when a large amount of data is affected. When you delete whole segments of 
data, filter your deletes by `segmentby` column(s) instead of separate deletes. 
This considerably increases performance by skipping the decompression step. 
Since $TIMESCALE_DB [v2.21.0](tsdb-release-2-21-0) and later, `DELETE` operations on the $COLUMNSTORE
are executed on the batch level, which allows more performant deletion of data of non-segmentby columns
and reduces IO usage.

## Earlier versions of $TIMESCALE_DB (< v2.11.0)

<Highlight type="warning">

> This feature requires $PG 14 or later

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This feature requires $PG 14 or later
```

</Highlight>

<Tabs>

<Tab title="TimescaleDB&nbsp;2.3-2.10">

> From $TIMESCALE_DB v2.3.0, you could insert data into compressed chunks with some

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From $TIMESCALE_DB v2.3.0, you can insert data into compressed chunks with some
```
